if you want to rank at the top of google
you need backlinks but all backlinks are
not equal
and when you're building these backlinks
the text of the link can impact your
ranking for any given keyword
and that's called anchor text rich links
but how many of them do you need to
really build if you want to rank at the
top
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm going to break down how many anchor
text rich links you need to build
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and that way
anytime i go live or release more tips
like this you'll get notified
so the first thing i want you to do is
google for the term that you want to
rank for and it could be any term as you
can see on my screen i googled for the
term seo
and you could google for multiple terms
like seo online marketing and the
possibilities are endless
so if i scroll down and look at the term
seo and now go to the first organic
listing it's moz
second one is also moz third one also
moz then search into lan then google
developers guide
then google's developer guide wikipedia
then me then word stream
and then i can go to page two but i want
you to focus just on page one
and when you look on page one the reason
i picked the example of seo is you'll
see multiple urls from the same site
i want you to look at the top url from
each website that's ranking if there's
only one
one domain per
listing that's fine as well and that
makes it easier but for any
search query that you run that you want
to rank for if there's multiple domains
or more so if there's the same domain
ranking multiple times use the top url
for that domain when doing the analysis
i'm going to show you exactly what you
need to do
so i'm going to open up
each of the listings right remember moz
is three times so just click on the top
one
and then you have search engine lan
then developers guide to
google then wikipedia
then neil patel
then word stream
so in total as you can see here in the
navigation there's one two three four
five six
different domains that rank on page one
at this moment for the term seo
so then what i want you to do is take
that url
and then go to neilpatel.com
ubersuggest
right and put in that url
and then i want you in the left sidebar
to click on seo explorer
and then click on backlinks
then you you'll need to put in that url
because this is the report you need to
look at and in this drop down under type
put and select exact url
this will show you all the people that
link to this exact url
as you can see there's roughly over a
hundred thousand backlinks and nine
thousand plus referring domains that's
how many unique domains are linking to
that page
you can also see the new and lost links
but i want you to scroll down
this is the anchor text distribution
this is showing the keywords that people
are using in the link text right and let
me actually give you an example of this
so if i scroll down here you see
friendly to search engines that's the
example of a link
and that link text says friendly to
search engines that's the anchor text
right it's the keywords that are in the
link
this one right here is building links
and it goes to another page and that
link text is building links that's what
i mean by anchor text
so when other websites link to you these
are internal links to moz but other
websites can link to you and it's the
same thing they put our links in their
articles
you need to see what text they're using
in the links because if everyone is
linking to this page with the term
online marketing instead of seo the page
is more likely to rank for the term
online marketing
now of course google knows if you're
manipulating it so they're looking at do
the link text the anchor text match the
content on the page is it from relevant
websites is it from high domain
authority sites all those things matter
and you can see the domain authority in
the left side but more so for this
tutorial i want to focus on anchor text
so as you can see
if they have
9800 referring domains you can see that
a lot of them have the term seo or the
term beginner's guide to seo or seo the
beginner's guide to search engine
optimization from moz
or the exact url or the word here or the
beginner's guide to seo
this will give you a rough idea of what
kind of links you need to create from an
anchor text perspective
so when you're building links you can
see that they're using a lot of random
variation as well but more specifically
they're breaking down all right well or
more so uber says is breaking down
the term so you can see seo
you know is a large percentage of the
links
now i want you to do this
for
each and every single url so we did it
for the beginner's guide to moss
now i want to end up doing it for search
engine land what is seo
as you can see with the search engine
land result they have seo popular search
engine optimization search engine lan
search engineland.com search engine
optimization seo the exact url
what is seo search engine optimization
now if i click on the next one the
developer's guide to google
they don't have tons of backlinks but
it's google they're going to rank for
everything because again it's google
and you can also see a breakdown per
individual link if you scroll down and
you go throughout the
list
or you can just look at the table here
and the table here seo seo starter guide
google
write search engine optimization seo
strategy gives you idea of the keywords
that are being used in the links
pointing to that url
so now let's go to the wikipedia listing
all right let's pull that one up take a
little bit
this one has 22 000 backlinks from
720 000 uh different web pages that's a
lot of referring domain names so as i
scroll down with wikipedia you can end
up seeing the word seos use a lot of
searching optimization art science
you probably don't want to use art
science wikipedia they're using their
own name
search engine optimization search and
optimization seo
and again i can end up doing that for
the neil patel url
seo search engine optimization seo
agency seo company what is seo which is
a url seo made simple step by step guide
neil patel
and then you have word stream right so
let's put in this url from word stream
and i can go through every single url
again all things seo approaches seo
basics of your site foreign trade seo
montreal seo expert and if i just keep
scrolling i can go through every single
one of their pages and see the anchor
text or i can just scroll up and look at
the table
so if i look at the table it ends up
breaking down seo with your seo
seo based search and optimization guide
to seo for beginners
seo basics complete beginner's guide to
search and optimization
this will give you idea of the anchor
text you need to use what works for your
competition typically will work for you
if you see all their links not having
anchor text rich keywords and they're
not including it you don't need to
include the keyword a lot when you're
trying to build your links now you don't
want to buy links you don't want to
artificially inflate it but the other
thing that you'll notice is none of the
links all say the same anchor text for
the pages that are ranking why is that
it's not natural for every single link
that you have to say the same anchor
text so that's why it's good to rotate
it up when you're trying to do your
manual outreach and building links and
in most cases it's not in your control
but you can try to persuade people and
try to tell them hey can you change it
to the link text to say seo or search
engine optimization or beginner's guide
testio a lot of times they'll say no but
a lot of times they'll say yeah sure and
they won't mind but that will give you
idea of how rich
anchor text links you need when you're
trying to rank and i want you to do this
for any of the keywords that you're
trying to rank go to page one go through
the top ten results and then go from
there put it into ubersus go to the
backlinks report
and make sure that you're selecting the
url uh in the type
now if you need help with your rankings
and link building check out my ad agency
neil patel digital if you have any
questions leave a comment below and i'll
do my best to answer it
if you enjoyed the video like it share
it tell the people about it thank you
very much